---
layout: post
title: Linux 2019
---

## Ubuntu

{% include image.html url="/assets/pics/ubuntu-logo.png" description="" %}

If you follow Linux forums/websites, Ubuntu is one of the Linux distros to go for beginners. Thus, I had Ubuntu as my first Linux distro installed at the end of 2018.

My first impression on Ubuntu is the nice desktop and interface. I was surprised that it could be that elegant compared to Windows desktop. But the key to keep me visiting Ubuntu is the Terminal. It was different experience from Windows, whose Command Prompt and PowerShell I barely touched.

Ubuntu ran smoothly for a couple of weeks. After the honeymoon, the storm arrived:

* Thumbnail cache error
* Could not play audio
* Could not open new app
* Read-only filesysten

The list kept going on. The only solution was to reboot, and everytime it booted into the `BusyBox`. At first, the error interval was in days, then a few times a day. The trouble source seemed to be Ubuntu updates, which made the system unstable. I decided to move back to Windows.

## Linux Mint

{% include image.html url="/assets/pics/linuxmint-logo.jpg" description="" %}

In the middle of 2019, I made up my mind to use Linux full-time, and this time I installed Linux Mint Cinnamon. Mint desktop was more beautiful than Ubuntu's in my opinion. Mint ran nicely for a couple of weeks, then the same Ubuntu problems emerged again. At a point, Mint was even worse that Google Chrome suddenly crashed without a reason. I had a firm feeling that the updates caused those problems. Therefore, I decided to clean-install Linux Mint and kept it away from any update. The system ran really well then. Living without updates, however, is not a my long-term goal. Realized that Ubuntu is Debian-based and Mint is Ubuntu-based, I wanted to use another Linux distro family.

## Manjaro Linux

{% include image.html url="/assets/pics/manjaro-logo.jpg" description="" %}

I catched the names of Manjaro Linux and Arch Linux unintentionally. Arch Linux was introduced as cutting-edge, which makes it unstable, and Manjaro Linux is Arch-based with more stability thanks to its developement team. Installing Arch is a pain in the neck with a long installation guide, while installing Manjaro is smooth with a bootable USB. Therefore, I continue my Linux journey with Manjaro Linux.

Using Arch-based distro was strange at first, but I soon turned to be a fan: `pacman` for package management, the package center, and the community Arch Wiki. The baddies, however, knocked the door again:

* Nvidia: Nvidia card works perfectly on Windows. Nvidia driver is installed on Ubuntu with ease. But installing Nvidia drivers on Manjaro Linux is challenging (Tip: use Optimus Manager and `nomodeset` on boot).
* The screen suddenly freezes while using Google Chrome.
* Could not connect to WiFi after logging. A possible solution is to reset the repeater.
