---
layout: post
title: Vietnamese-German University
---

{% include image.html url="/assets/vgu-logo.jpg" description="VGU Logo" %}

*Disclaimer:* This is my personal experience during my time at Vietnamese-German University (VGU) as an Electrical Engineering & Information Technology bachelor student 2014-2018.

VGU [homepage](https://vgu.edu.vn/) was founded in 2008 from the collaboration between Germany and Vietnam for technology transfer. In September 2018, VGU has 5 bachelor and 6 master programs, each is cooperated by VGU and a German university. The teaching staffs are combined from VGU local lecturers and German professors from the associated school.

### Study

Pros:

* The lecturers are on point. German professors are wise and experienced. Local lecturers are PhDs from well-known USA/Germany universities.
* VGU is pushing researches, projects, competitions, and prizes for recognition and reputation.
* DAAD (German Academic Exchange Service) provides annual scholarships to conduct thesis in Germany. There are also many other programs like self-financed exchange student or FreeMover program. VGU students have some advantage in finding internships/official jobs in Germany-based companies, such as Adidas, Bosch, Siemens.
* Students get 2 degrees, one from VGU and one from the associated German university.
* The official language in study is English.
* VGU has merit-based scholarships for top rank students annualy. This motivates its students to study and achieve higher.
* The first year in VGU “Foundation Year” is for students to hone English skill, and basic knowledge in science, writings and presentations. The next 3 years focus on the major.
* Mandatory German classes for VGU students. Knowing German is absolutely helpful if coming to Germany.

Cons:

* German professors stay within limited time in Vietnam (typically 3 weeks/stay), so students have struggles to keep in touch with them for academic purposes (e.g research, projects).
* An inevitable transition of having more local lecturers and reducing the number of German professors flying back and forth.
* Unfortunately, my class EEIT 2014 had no DAAD scholarships, although scholarships to other classes were still going strong.
* For many students, the German degree is the bias to choose VGU.
* There are some inconvenience in administration due to inexperience.
* All exams are written exams. In my opinion, the oral exam is better in building one’s speaking, explaination, and interview skill.

### Campus

Good:

* The campus and dormitory is located in Binh-Duong New City far from urban areas like Thu-Dau-Mot or Hochiminh City. The good point is: students could focus on studying thanks to not be distracted from other things (?!).
* VGU provides dormitory for students and the service is served instantly. Thus, students don’t need to worry about finding shelter in a rural area.
* VGU provides pay-to-use transportation (i.e bus) from Hochiminh City to dormitory/campus. At least there is an option for commute.
* Clubs founded by students base on their needs, such as robotics, finance, sports.

Not-so-good:

* Students are isolated from metropolitan if they don’t have their own mean of transportation.
* Options for part-time jobs in the local area are not rich.
* **Important:** The campus and dormitory are leased from a third-party organization. VGU hasn’t had its own campus or its own dormitory yet. This led to the dormitory change 2 times in 3 years (2015-2018). I hope VGU has its own campus done soon in the near future.

### Personal Perspective

It was in my 11th grade that I first heard about VGU. I took VGU entrance exam only to estimate my ability in a TestAS exam. In the end, VGU has become a part of me. I was member of 3 clubs and made many cool friends there. I lived in VGU dormitory, where I met my precious roommates. I am happy to know them and have them as a second family.

Sure that I have plenty of good memories here: education, friends, achievements. VGU opened the door to Germany for me so that I could explore more parts of the world. A major attack in my VGU time is no DAAD scholarship for my class.

How could I personally rate a university? It is not always the position of a university on world-wide rankings. It is how good you become from that university.

There is a saying: “VGU is Very Good University”.
