---
layout: post
title: Manjaro
---

I didn’t think of Manjaro after Linux Mint. Actually, I searched for a stable distro. And the list are Debian, openSuse Leap, Fedora (?!), … I tried to install Debian but I stuck at the Internet requirements (I used the light image of Debian). For openSuse, there is the full image but it took a day to download (I don’t know why). For Fedora, the problem I got was the same as Debian.

Then, I catched Manjaro and Arch Linux at some forum. At first, Arch was introduced as a cutting-edge distro, which makes it unstable, and Manjaro is Arch-based. But there is a team behind Manjaro to test the newest version of app/kernel/package. If this new version is stable, then it is released to Manjaro users, which makes it more stable than Arch. And installing Arch is a pain in the neck, while installing Manjaro is like Ubuntu/Linux Mint. Therefore, I continue my Linux adventure with Manjaro Linux.

Switching from Ubuntu-based to Arch-based is strange at first sight. Manjaro uses pacman, Ubuntu uses apt-get. Ubuntu has software center, Manjaro has package center.

After some hour playing with this new OS, I turned to be its fan. I can control the packages in my system, so I can keep it as lightweight as possible. Manjaro has its Manjaro and Arch wiki, which is really helpful to understand more about Linux. 

The 1st tackle in Manjaro is Latex. In Ubuntu or Windows, I use Miktex to install Tex packages on fly. There is no such thing in Manjaro. Then I figured out: those Tex packages are covered in Texlive packages, and I can install and control which package to use!

The 2nd tackle is Nvidia. Nvidia works perfectly on Windows, no doubt. Nvidia driver are installed easily on Ubuntu, but I rarely use them (or I don’t even know if I used them). In Manjaro, there is Optimus Manager, which user can switch from Intel to Nvidia graphic card! This is a huge advantage. But I failed to use this feature at first try. There are some problems like: graphic card switch lock-up, driver query freeze, shutdown/reboot freeze, … Finally, I found a solution: set Nvidia as startup in Optimus Manager.

Update 30/1/2020

Sometimes my screen freezes while using Google Chrome & the laptop could not connect to the repeater’s Wifi after turning on (I have to reset the repeater, then the machine can use its Wifi). Now I am switching to Elementary OS.