---
layout: post
title: Linux Journey 2019
---

## Ubuntu

{% include image.html url="/assets/ubuntu-logo.jpg" description="Ubuntu Logo" %}

If you follow Linux-topic forums/websites, Ubuntu is placed in top place of Linux-to-go for beginners. Thus, I was biased to habe Ubuntu as my first Linux distro installed. It was at the end of year 2018.

My first impression for Ubuntu is its User Interface. It looked good, I was a little surprised when comparing it to Windows. But the key point to keep me visiting Ubuntu is the Terminal. It was simply different from Windows, whose Command Prompt and PowerShell I barely touched. Ubuntu ran smoothly for a couple of weeks.

After the honeymoon, the storms arrived:

* Thumbnail cache error
* Could not play audio
* Could not open new app
* System files became read-only

The list kept going on. The only solution was to reboot, and everytime it booted into the `BusyBox`. At first, the must-reboot interval was counted in days, then eventually to a few times a day.

The trouble source seemed to be Ubuntu updates, which made the system unstable. I was not sure at that time. I deleted Ubuntu and came back to Windows.

## Linux Mint

{% include image.html url="/assets/linuxmint-logo.jpg" description="Linux Mint Logo" %}

In the middle of 2019, I made up my mind to ditch Windows totally, deteled Windows partition and installed Linux Mint Cinnamon.

Linux Mint desktop environment was much more beautiful (note: personal taste) than Ubuntu's. Mint was nice for a couple of weeks (sounds same same?), then the same Ubuntu problems emerged again (it's the same). At a point, Mint was worse than Ubuntu, when Google Chrome suddenly crashed without a reason.

I had a firm feeling that the updates caused those problems this time. Therefore, I decided to clean-install Linux Mint and froze it from updates. The system ran really well.

However, living without updates is not a my long-term option. Ubuntu is Debian-based, and Mint is Ubuntu-based. This motivated me to move to another family of Linux distros.

## Manjaro Linux

{% include image.html url="/assets/manjaro-logo.jpg" description="Manjaro Linux Logo" %}

I catched the names of Manjaro Linux and Arch Linux on some forums. Arch Linux was introduced as a cutting-edge distro, which makes it unstable, and Manjaro Linux is Arch-based with a little more stability thanks to a team behind. Installing Arch is a pain in the neck, while installing Manjaro is the same process as Ubuntu/Linux Mint. Therefore, I continue my Linux journey with Manjaro Linux.

Using Arch-based distro was strange at first, then I turned to be its fan. Manjaro uses `pacman`, Ubuntu uses `apt-get` for the package management tool. Ubuntu has the software center, while Manjaro has the package center, which tracks all packages within the machine to keep it as lightweight as possible. In addition, Manjaro has active supporting communities, like the Manjaro Wiki and Arch Wiki.

However, the bad sooner or later appeared:

* Nvidia: Nvidia card works perfectly on Windows. Nvidia driver is installed on Ubuntu with ease. But installing Nvidia drivers in Manjaro Linux is not that straightforward. An approach is to use Optimus Manager with some configuration on boot.
* The screen suddenly freezes while using Google Chrome.
* Could not connect to WiFi broadcast by a repeater after boot. A solution is to reset the repeater while the laptop is on.

At the beginning of 2020, I byed Manjaro Linux, and started using Elementary OS.
